---
title: "Fish Pie"
layout: post
categories:
  - Soup
  - Fusion
---
# Uncle Azim's recipe

## Ingredients

- 1 Kg fresh cod ( thick fillets from the back, i.e. Royal Cod filets )
- 2 tablespoons butter
- 1 onion finely chopped
- 1 tablespoon ginger paste
- 1/2 tablespoon garlic paste
- juice of one lemon
- Fresh green chili paste ( according to taste )
- 2 dl cream
- salt and pepper
- 2 skinned and cubed fresh tomatoes ( optional )
- bunch of fresh coriander chopped
- 8 portions of mashed potatoes made with butter and cream
- 3 ripe tomatoes cut in thin slices for decoration

## Method
Melt butter in a pan and add onions. Stir fry until transparent.

Add ginger, garlic and chili paste. Stir fry for 1 min.

Add lemon juice, salt and pepper, cod fish and gently steam for 4 to 5 minutes until just cooked and starts to flake.

Remove fish with a slotted spoon and break it up.

Reduce liquid in pan and add cream. Continue reducing until you get a thick sauce.

Add sauce to fish, add cubed tomatoes and fresh coriander and mix well.

Adjust salt, pepper and chili.

Put fish mix in a oven proof tray.

Put a layer (6 portions) of mashed potatoes on top of the fish.

Decorate with sliced tomatoes and glaze with some melted butter.

Decorate the dish with the remaining 2 portions of mashed potatoes using an icing bag and nozzle.

Keep in fridge until required.

Bake before serving in a hot oven ( 220 degrees ) for about 20 to 25 mins before serving.

If anything unclear, please get back to me.

Happy cooking and I wish you a lot of success with this dish.


