---
title: "Toroto"
layout: post
categories:
  - Soup
  - Indian
  - Fusion
  - Favourite
images:
  path: /images/artona.jpg
---
# Un inverno in ArTona

Zuppa di lenticchie rosse con coco, coriandolo e patate dolci. Una ricetta alcalinica presa dal corso della Mamma di Nas (ayurveda).

## Ingredients (metric)
- 300 g sweet potatoes
- 2 red onions
- 1 teaspoon of cumin powder
- 1 teaspoon of curcuma powder
- 2 teaspoons of ground coriander
- 1 cloves of garlic
- fresh coriander
- 100 g red lentils
- carrots and celery
- 500 ml (more or less) of vegetable stock
- 500 ml coconut milk
- 1/2 lemon
- Optional: 1 fresh red chilli

## Method
Start by preheating the oven to 180ºC/350ºF/gas 4 and cut the sweet potatoes into around 1-inch chunks, then peel and thinly slice the onions.

Transfer the sweet potatoes into a baking tray and roast for around 40 minutes.

While this is roasting, wash the lentils, pick the coriander leaves from the stalks and separate, and then finely slice the coriander stalks.

In a large saucepan, on a medium to low heat, gently warm some oil and then sauté the onions, carrots, celery, garlic and coriander stalks for 5 minutes and then add the lentils, and make sure everything is well coated in oil.

Warm the vegetable stock and then add this to the saucepan, followed by the coconut milk, and then cook this for 20 minutes, until the lentils are cooked and starting to break down. This should take around 20 minutes, low heat.

By now the roasting vegetables should be ready, so remove them from the oven and put them into your saucepan, and add the coriander leaves, and simmer this for another 2-3 minutes and turn on the heat. Squeeze in some lemon juice to taste.

If you’re using the red chilli, finely slice this and add a little (you can add it per bowl if not everyone likes the spice!)

Serve in bowls with a few extra coriander leaves on top, and a drizzle of your favourite oil, on the side with tomme de la venoge and bread.
