---
title: "Pancakes"
layout: post
categories:
 - Cake
---
# Walnut Chocolate Pancakes

Nasrine's adaptation of the classical pancake recipe.

## Ingredients

- 1.5 cups all purpose plain flour, (200 g)
- 1/2 cup thinly grounded walnuts (approx 90 g),
- 1/4 cup granulated sugar (optional), (60g)
- 4 teaspoons baking powder
- 1/4 teaspoon baking soda
- 1/2 teaspoon salt
- 1 3/4 cups milk, (440ml)
- 1/4 cup butter, (60g)
- 1.5 teaspoon pure vanilla extract
- 1 egg
- chocolate chips

## Method

Combine together the flour, sugar (or sweetener), baking powder, baking soda and salt in a large-sized bowl. Make a well in the centre and add the milk, slightly cooled melted butter, vanilla, egg and chocolate chips. The chocolate chips can also be added aftewards, while plating the batter such that 1. they do no fall to the bottom 2. they do not burn while making the pancakes. If not added now, see below.

Use a wire whisk to whisk the wet ingredients together first before slowly folding them into the dry ingredients. Mix together until smooth (there may be a couple of lumps but that's okay). The batter will be thick and creamy in consistency. If you find the batter too thick -- doesn't pour off the ladle or out of the measuring cup smoothly -- fold a couple tablespoons of extra milk into the batter at a time until reaching desired consistency.

Set the batter aside and allow to rest while heating up your pan or griddle.

Heat a nonstick pan or griddle over low-medium heat and wipe over with a little butter to lightly grease pan. Pour 1/4 cup of batter onto the pan and spread out gently into a round shape with the back of your ladle or measuring cup. If the chocolate chips were not added before, add them now, by covering them with some batter.

When the underside is golden and bubbles begin to appear on the surface, flip with a spatula and cook until golden. Repeat with remaining batter, not forgetting to add grease the pan with butter for new each pancake.

Serve with slightly warmed maple syrup.

