---
title: "Buttermilk Pancakes"
layout: post
categories:
  - Favourite
  - Baking
image:
  path: /images/pancakes.jpeg
---
# Buttermilk pancakes By J. Kenji López-Alt
Classic buttery flavor and golden brown, crisp tops and bottoms, but with a lighter texture.

See [here](https://www.seriouseats.com/light-and-fluffy-pancakes-recipe) for more content.

You can prepare the dry mix ahead and store it in a sealed container for up to 3 months.
Recipe scales up and down. This is for one batch of pancakes for 3 to 4 people.

## Ingredients
**Dry mix:**
- 10 ounces (about 2 cups) all-purpose flour
- 1 teaspoon baking powder
- 1/2 teaspoon baking soda
- 1 teaspoon salt (even a bit less)
- 1 tablespoon sugar (even a bit less)

**For Each Batch of Pancakes:**
- 2 large eggs, separated
- 1 1/2 cups (about 12 ounces) buttermilk *or* 1 cup yogurt whisked together with 1/2 cup milk
- 1 cup (about 8 ounces) sour cream (see notes), can do without
- 4 tablespoons unsalted butter, melted, plus more for serving
- Warm maple syrup

## Method
- For the Dry Pancake Mix: Combine flour, baking powder, baking soda, salt, and sugar in a medium bowl and whisk until homogenous. Transfer to an airtight container. The mix will stay good for 3 months.
- For each Batch of Pancakes: Place one batch of dry mix in a large bowl. In a medium clean bowl, whisk the egg whites until stiff peaks form. In a large bowl, whisk the egg yolks, buttermilk, and sour cream until homogenous. Slowly drizzle in the melted butter while whisking. Carefully fold in the egg whites with a rubber spatula until just combined. Pour the mixture over the dry mix and fold until just combined (there should still be plenty of lumps).
- Heat a large heavy-bottomed nonstick skillet over medium heat for 5 minutes. Add a small amount of ghee (higher smoking point than butter) to the skillet and spread with a paper towel until no visible ghee remains. Use a 1/4-cup dry measure to place 4 pancakes in the skillet and cook until bubbles start to appear on top and the bottoms are golden brown, about 2 minutes. Carefully flip the pancakes and cook on the second side until golden brown and completely set, about 2 minutes longer. Serve the pancakes immediately, or keep warm on a wire rack set on a rimmed baking sheet in a warm oven while you cook the remaining 3 batches. Serve with warm maple syrup
